# INTRODUCTION
After the kernel is loaded into the RAM, the GRand Unified Bootloader (GRUB) turns over the execution to the kernel.[5]  The kernel first initializes memory and set up memory allocation tables. It initializes all I/O devices including the hard drives and mounts the root filesystem (/) in read-only mode. The rest of the filesystems are mounted later. The initialization process starts as the kernel initializes hardware as well as kernel data structures. Then kernel command line is saved and Hard-drive information is retrieved from the Basic Input Output System (BIOS).[6]  After the retrieval is done, memory size is determined through the BIOS. Then hardware is prepared to move to the protected mode. (Protected mode is the normal memory mode that the system runs in). The “Protected Mode Enabled” bit is set in the Machine Status Word and the protected mode is turned on. Page tables are initialized which are part of virtual memory support and Paging is enabled by setting the PG bit in control register 0 and after the virtual memory is turned on, Exception handlers are installed. If a programming error is detected, these routines get control and the timer interrupt is installed. After these installations, kernel detects the attached devices in the system & loads their drivers into RAM and mounts root filesystem into read-only memory mode. Finally, the ‘init’ process is initialized for further processing.[7] 

Now-a-days where industry is working towards the virtualization and cloud ,the boot time of an operating system dominates the performance of virtualization service.[8]  There exists various architectures to address the boot time for example Monolithic and Micro kernel architecture[9] .This study will briefly explain the architecture of monolithic and Microkernel kernel and will focus on the areas which are acting dominantly for the boot process.
